.\" @(#)CP-PPS.man      1.1 04/15/96 12:21:23
.\" Article: 4359 of comp.unix.misc
.\" From: Tom Christiansen <tchrist@convex.COM>
.\" Subject: Re: How to make a man-page (stupid question?)
.\" Organization: CONVEX Realtime Development, Colorado Springs, CO
.\" Date: Thu, 23 Apr 1992 21:39:42 GMT
.\"
.\" >From the keyboard of jik@athena.mit.edu (Jonathan I. Kamens):
.\" :My system also has a file /usr/man/man0/xx which contains
.\" :the skeleton of a man page.
.\"
.\" Here's such a skeleton I once wrote.
.\"
.\" --tom
.\"
.\" Please keep the pagelength at 66 lines/page.  [joanne]
.pl 66
.\"
.TH CP-PPS 1 "APR 16 1996" "ASF SPS Release 1B'" "CP USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
CP-PPS \- act as an interface between the Control Processor Subsystem(CP) and the Production Planning Subsystem(PPS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B CP-PPS
.B -asfn
.I application-name
.B -asf_CP_inet
.I server-ip-addr
.B -asfp
.I socket-port-addr
.B -configfile
.I configure-file
.B -config
.I msgTemplate-file
.B -asflogloc
.I SYSLOG_AND_TERM
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
CP-PPS accepts job request from CP, then submits it to PPS to get requested job.CP-PPS sends received job to CP processor so CP maintain jobs in the correct sequence, catalogs and delivers completed products to the Information Management Syatem/Data Archive and Distribution Subsystem(IMS/DADS), and finally CP-PPS gets job status from CP and returns job status information to PPS.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-asfn\fP \fIapplication-name\fP"
Name of the CP-IMS application name.
.IP "\fB\-asf_CP_inet\fP \fIserver-ip-addr\fP"
Name of the server's IP address.  The server is where the CP is running.
.IP "\fB\-asfp\fP \fIsocket-port-addr\fP"
Name of tcp/ip local address for this application.
.IP "\fB\-configfile\fP \fIconfigure-file\fP"
Name of the configure file. This file defines the configuretion information for all the processes for CP and its subsystems in ODL format.
.IP "\fB\-config\fP \fImsgTemplate-file\fP"
Name of the message template file. This file defines all the message templates for CP and its subsystems in ODL format.
.IP "\fB\-asflogloc\fP \fIlog-file\fP"
Specifies the level of logging that will be performed by the CP-PPS. Acceptable values are SYSLOG and SYSLOG_AND_TERM.  If SYSLOG is selected, log messages will be logged via the syslog facility.  If SYSLOG_AND_TERM is selected, these messages will also be printed to the window from which the CP-PPS was started.  This item must be specified on the command line.
.SS ""
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
Request Jobs and messages in ODL format are passed throught CP-PPS between the CP and PPS by using DCE RPCs.  CP requests SAR processing jobs for either scan request or L1 product request to CP-PPS.  

CP-PPS sends acknowledge back to CP and calls the recv_job_from_PPS routine to fetch a scan_request or frame_request.  If PPS returns a requested job to CP-PPS, that job will be sent to CP.  Otherwise, CP-PPS sends SUBSYSTEM_STATUS to CP with no available job or error status.  

.SH "RETURN VALUES"

Either requested job or SUBSYSTEM_STATUS will return to CP from CP-PPS.  Any error detected in this application will bring up a pop-up dialog and proper message shows in the dialog to explain the error is.
.\" Induce a page break here.

.SH EXAMPLES
CP-PPS -asf_CP_inet 137.78.28.27 -asfp 2022 -asfn CP-PPS -asfcpconfig /asf/bin/configfile.odl -asflogloc SYSLOG_AND_TERM

.SH SEE ALSO
CP(1), CP_image_avg(1), CP_qc(2), CP_scan_qc(1), CP-IMS(1), CP_gpr(1)


