.\" @(#)CP.man	1.5 96/05/28 14:38:58
.\" Article: 4359 of comp.unix.misc
.\" From: Tom Christiansen <tchrist@convex.COM>
.\" Subject: Re: How to make a man-page (stupid question?)
.\" Organization: CONVEX Realtime Development, Colorado Springs, CO
.\" Date: Thu, 23 Apr 1992 21:39:42 GMT
.\" 
.\" >From the keyboard of jik@athena.mit.edu (Jonathan I. Kamens):
.\" :My system also has a file /usr/man/man0/xx which contains
.\" :the skeleton of a man page.
.\" 
.\" Here's such a skeleton I once wrote.
.\" 
.\" --tom
.\"
.\" Please keep the pagelength at 66 lines/page.  [joanne]
.pl 66
.\"
.TH CP 1 "29 Apr 1996" "ASF SPS Release 1B'" "ASF User Commands"
.SH NAME
CP \- Operator interface and controller for the Control Processor subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B CP
.B -asfn
.I name
.B -asfpcpconfig 
.I config-file
.B -asflogloc 
.I location
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"long drawn out discussion of the program.  it's a good idea
.\"to break this up into subsections using the .SS macros, like
.\"these:
.\".SS "A Sample Subsection"
.\".SS "Yet Another Sample Subsection"
The 
.B CP
program serves as an interface between the SAR Processing System (SPS) and the
other Alaska SAR Facility (ASF) subsystems.
.B CP
provides an interface for the SPS operator 
to set up processing jobs for RADARSAT, ERS and JERS data.
.B CP
routes these jobs as required to the Raw Data Scanner (RDS) and the
two SAR processors, the Alaska SAR Processor (ASP), and the ScanSAR 
Processor (SSP).
.B CP
provides full operational control for processing activities on the
SPS and displays the current status of all active jobs within the SPS
on its operator interface.

Normally, this application is started by selecting the menu item
\fIStart SPS Operations\fR from the root window manager menu of
the \fIsps\fR account.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-asfn\fP \fIname\fP"
Logical name, or label, to be associated with this instance of the CP.  
The name must begin with the characters \fICP\fR.
This item must be specified on the command line.
.IP "\fB\-asfpcpconfig\fP \fIconfig-file\fP"
Name of the SPS configuration file (e.g.,
\fI$LOCAL/cp/config/configfile.odl\fR)
that defines the configuration of the subsystems for this instance
of \fBCP\fP.
This item must be specified on the command line.  The format of this
file is defined in the \fICP Software Operator's Manual\fR.
.IP "\fB\-asflogloc\fP \fIlocation\fP"
Specifies the target location(s) for log messages.  Acceptable values
are \fISYSLOG\fR and \fISYSLOG_AND_TERM\fR.  If \fISYSLOG\fR is specified,
log messages will be written only to the syslog facility.  If
\fISYSLOG_AND_TERM\fR is specified, then the messages are also written
to the standard error.  If the value is not specified, it defaults to
\fISYSLOG\fR.

.SS "RESOURCE SETTINGS"
The application shell's class is set to \fICP\fR; defining values
for that class in an app-defaults file can be useful.  The
user-configurable resources in the file
\fI$LOCAL/app-defaults/CP\fR include:

.\"------------------- sizes ----------------------------------------

.PP

.TP 3
.IP "\fBSIZES\fP"
.PD 0

Specifies the sizes (width, height) and location (x, y) of configurable parts of the application.

.TP 27


.RS 3
CP*.CPmainQ_shell.x:
x-coordinate of main window
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPmainQ_shell.y:
y-coordinate of main window
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPmainQ_shell.width:
width of main window
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPstatusForm.height:
height of "subsystems" panel
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPexternForm.height:
height of "external" panel
.TP

.RS 3
CP*CPjobs_form.height:
height of "jobs" panel

.TP

.PD

.RE

.\"------------------- colors ----------------------------------------


.PP
.TP 3
.IP "\fBCOLORS\fP"
.PD 0

Specifies the foreground (FG) and background (BG) colors of configurable parts of the application.

.TP 35


.RS 3
CP*background:
default BG 
.TP

.RS 3
CP*XmList.background:
default list BG
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPerrorBox.background:
error box BG
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPerrorBox.foreground:
error box FG
.TP

.RS 3
CP*CPjobs_form*XmList.background:
"jobs" list BG
.TP

.RS 3
CP*CPjobs_form*XmList.foreground:
"jobs" list FG

.TP


.\"------------------- fonts ----------------------------------------

.TP 3
.IP "\fBFONTS\fP"
.PD 0

Specifies the fonts used for configurable parts of the application.

.TP 24

.RS 3
CP*fontList:
default for all items
.TP

.RS 3
CP*XmList.fontList:
default for list widgets 
.TP

.RS 3
CP*XmText.fontList:
default for text widgets 
.TP

.RS 3
CP*XmLabel.fontList:
default for label widgets 
.TP

.TP 30
.RS 3
CP*XmCascadeButton.fontList:
menu header names (File, Tools,...)
.TP

.TP 36
.RS 3
CP*XmCascadeButtonGadget.fontList:
menu header names
.TP


.RS 3
CP*XmPushButton.fontList:
push buttons 
.TP

.RS 3
CP*XmPushButtonGadget.fontList:
push buttons 
.TP

.PP
.TP 15

.RS 3
CP*CPinfoBox.textFontList:
"information" box text widgets 
.TP


.RS 3
CP*XmMessageBox.XmPushButtonGadget.fontList:
dialog box push buttons 
.TP


.RS 3
CP*.CPstatusRC.XmToggleButton.fontList:
subsystem name toggle buttons
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPstatusRC.XmLabel.fontList:
"subsystems" column headings
.TP


.RS 3
CP*.CPexternForm.labelFontList:
"external interfaces" panel labels
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPexternForm.buttonFontList:
"external interfaces" panel buttons
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPexternRC.XmToggleButton.fontList:
"external interface" name toggle buttons
.TP

.RS 3
CP*.CPexternRC.XmLabel.fontList:
"external interfaces" column headings
.TP


.TP 33
.RS 3
CP*CPjobs_form*XmList.fontList:
"jobs" list entries
.TP

.RS 3
CP.CP*CPmainQ*CPjobs_form.XmLabelGadget.fontList:
"jobs" column headings 

.TP

.RE

.\"------------------- scan dest ----------------------------------------

.TP 3
.IP "\fBSCAN DESTINATION\fP"

Specifies the default subsystem to be used for scanning: RDS or ASP.
This pair of resources must coordinated such that if one is true,
the other is false, and vice versa.

    CP*.toggleScanDest_RDS.set:     true
    CP*.toggleScanDest_ASP.set:     false

.\"------------------- qc invocation ----------------------------------------

.IP "\fBQC INVOCATION\fP"

This pair of resources specifies the default image QC procedure:
whether to invoke the interactive QC program and allow the user to
manually accept or reject an image, or whether to automatically accept
the image, without operator approval.
This pair of resources must coordinated such
that if one is true, the other is false, and vice versa.

    CP*.toggleQC_automatic.set:     false
    CP*.toggleQC_manual.set:        true

.IP "\fBGPR ENABLING\fP"

Specifies whether the GPR should be allowed to run in this instance of the CP.

    *.Start_GPR_button.sensitive: false




.PP
Refer to O'Reilly's \fIX Toolkit
Intrinsics Reference Manual\fR for more information on this subject.
.\".SH "RETURN VALUE"

.\".SH ERRORS
.\"CP reports errors to stdout and to syslog, as defined by the configuration
.\"file specified at startup.

.SH EXAMPLES

Invoke \fBCP\fP to log to syslog and the terminal:

   CP \-asfn CP \-asfpconfig $LOCAL/cp/config/configfile.odl \-asflogloc SYSLOG_AND_TERM

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.\"env variables this program might care about
The environment variable ASF should be set to \fI/ASF/XXX\fR,
where \fIXXX\fR is the name
of the directory corresponding to the software release being used, e.g.,
\fIR1BP\fR for the R1B' delivery.

Similarly, the environment variable LOCAL should be set to \fI/LOCAL/XXX\fR,
where \fIXXX\fR equals \fIR1BP\fR for the R1B' delivery.

If either ASF or LOCAL is not set, \fBCP\fP prints an error message and exits.

.SH FILES
.\"all files used by the program.  typical usage is like this:
.\".br
.\".nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.\".ta \w'/usr/lib/perl/getopts.pl   'u
.\"\fI/usr/man\fR  default man tree
.\"\fI/usr/man/man*/*.*\fR unformatted (nroff source) man pages


.PD 0
.TP 27
.B $LOCAL/cp/config/configfile.odl
\fBCP\fP configuration file.  The format of this file is defined in the
\fICP Software Operator's Manual\fR.  The file format itself is specified
in ODL (Object Definition Language); the \fIPlanetary Data System
Standards Reference\fR contains more information on ODL syntax.
.TP
.B $LOCAL/cp/save/CP.state
File where the last incremental \fBCP\fP state is stored.
This file is copied for possible future operator-requested restoration
to \fI$LOCAL/cp/save/CP.last\fR at the beginning
of every invocation of \fBCP\fP.
The actual location
of this file is defined in \fBCP\fP's configuration file as the value of the
keyword \fISAVED_STATEFILE\fR.
.TP
.B $LOCAL/cp/save/CP.last 
File containing the final state saved from the last run of \fBCP\fP.
The actual location
of this file is defined in \fBCP\fP's configuration file as the value of the
keyword \fILAST_SAVED_STATEFILE\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" Always quote multiple words for .SH, just in case
.\"other man pages to check out, like man(1), man(7), makewhatis(8), catman(8)
.\"
CP_image_avg(1), CP_qc(1), CP_scan_qc(1), log_browser(1), mwm(1)

.SH NOTES
\fBCP\fP writes error and informational messages to the \fIlocal3\fR
syslog facility.  These messages can be displayed by invoking the
\fBlog_browser\fP utility from within the operator interface.

.SH REFERENCES
\fIControl Processor Software Operator's Manual\fR, JPL D-13309, Version 1.0,
April 1996.

\fIX Toolkit Intrinsics Reference Manual\fR, 3rd edition,
O'Reilly and Associates, Inc., 1992.

Quercia, V., and T. O'Reilly.  \fIX Window System User's Guide\fR,
3rd edition, O'Reilly and Associates, Inc., 1990.  This manual contains
more general information about using X application resources and using
the Motif window manager (\fImwm\fR).

\fIPlanetary Data System Standards Reference\fR, Part 2,
Version 3.0, JPL D-7669, November 1992.

.\".SH CAVEATS
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\"all the possible error messages the program can print out, and
.\"what they mean.

.\".SH BUGS
.\"None. HAHAHAHAHA :-)

.\".SH RESTRICTIONS
.\"bugs you don't plan to fix :-)
.\".SH AUTHOR
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" programs derived from other sources sometimes have this.
.SH CREDITS
This software was developed as part of the Control Processor
Subsystem of the Alaska SAR Facility at the University of
Alaska, Fairbanks.
