.pl 66
.\"
.TH TAPEREAD 1 "29 April 1996" "ASF SPS Release 1B'" "ASF USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
taperead \- copy data from DCRSi or SONY-ID1 tape to disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B taperead
.I {dcrsi|sony}
.I start_address
.I last_address
.I output_filename [
.B -c
.I {7|8} ]
.I [
.B -d
.I output_directory ... ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBtaperead\fP
copies blocks of data from the DCRSi (\fI/dev/vdi\fR) or
SONY-ID1 (\fI/dev/ml930a\fR) tape to one or more disk files.
\fBstart_address\fP
specifies the address of the first DCRSI block or SONY-ID1 trackset to be
dumped, which must be greater than or equal to 1.
\fBlast_address\fP
specifies the address of the last DCRSI block or SONY-ID1 trackset to be
dumped, which also must be greater than or equal to 1.
\fBoutput_filename\fP
specifies the basename of one or more output disk files.  Except for the last
file, the size of each output file ranges from a minimum of 512 to a maximum
of 492544 tape blocks.  One tape block is 4356 bytes.

The names of actual
output files are formed by appending the specified basename with
\fI.N\fR, where
\fIN\fR denotes an integer from 1 to number of files created.
However, if only one disk file is to be created, then the entire suffix
\fI.1\fR is dropped, i.e.,
the specified basename is the name of the output file.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-d\fP \fIoutput_directory ...\fP"
This option specifies one or more directories where the output files may 
reside.  If no directory is specified, the default is the current directory.
However, if the 
specified output directory is not the current directory,
\fBtaperead\fP automatically creates a symbolic link in the current
directory
to point to the real
output data file that is created in the specified directory.  The filesystems 
associated with the output directories are filled up in the order specified
on the command line.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP \fI{7|8}\fP"
This option specifies the character size of the serial line
(\fI/dev/vdi_sp0\fR)
used for communicating commands and responses with the DCRSi tape drive only.
The allowable values are 7 or 8 bits per character.  The default is \fI8\fR.
This option is ignored if the target drive is SONY-ID1.
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming that the current directory is \fI/d/100\fR, and that 
\fI/d/110\fR and \fI/d/112\fR have 3*1024*1024*1024 and 7*1024*1024*1024 bytes 
of free disk space, respectively, the command

	taperead dcrsi 1000001 2600000 WS1609 -d /d/110 /d/112

copies 1,600,000 blocks of data off the DCRSi tape, starting from
block #1000001, to the following disk files:

	Filename				Size (in bytes)

	/d/110/WS1609.1				492544*4356
	/d/110/WS1609.2				246947*4356
	/d/112/WS1609.3				492544*4356
	/d/112/WS1609.4				367965*4356
	/d/100/WS1609.1				---> /d/110/WS1609.1
	/d/100/WS1609.2				---> /d/110/WS1609.2
	/d/100/WS1609.3				---> /d/112/WS1609.3
	/d/100/WS1609.4				---> /d/112/WS1609.4

.SH NOTES
\fBtaperead\fP has been used with DCRSi recorder firmware revisions
4.4 and 5.0.
Its behavior with other firmware revisions is unknown at this time.

.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 27
.B /dev/ml930a
Data interface to the SONY-ID1 drive
.TP
.B /dev/vdi
Data interface to the DCRSi drive
.TP
.B /dev/vdi_sp0
(Serial) control interface to the DCRSi drive
